With the addition of the [pygtp library](http://github.com/jtauber/gtp), running a model as an opponent becomes easy once you've installed a GTP-compatible interface like [GoGui](http://gogui.sourceforge.net).

GTP (the Go Text Protocol) is a protocol for playing a game of Go. A GTP _Engine_ is a program that is responsible for maintaining the internal state of the game and deciding on a move when asked. A GTP _Controller_ is a program that mediates between engines.

The function `run_gtp(Player)` in `interface.gtp_wrapper` will loop forever listening for GTP commands on `stdin` and writing responses to `stdout`. (Note that a `Player` object that prints debug messages to `stdout` will be incompatible, as these statements will be interpreted as GTP responses. Use a logging module instead). GoGui is a bundle of software that, among other things, provides a graphical interface to play against any GTP-compatible program. Note that GoGui also comes with wrappers that can extend this simple `stdin`/`stdout` interface, for example to run the protocol over the internet.

In our code, a `Player` is any object that implements a `get_move(GameState) --> move` function. Example classes include `AlphaGo.ai.GreedyPolicyPlayer`, `AlphaGo.ai.ProbabilisticPolicyPlayer`, and `AlphaGo.mcts.MCTS`.

### Example: playing against a raw policy network

Start by making a small script "greedy_player_gtp.py" in the `RocAlphaGo/` directory that loads in a policy and ultimately calls `run_gtp`:

```python
from AlphaGo.ai import GreedyPolicyPlayer
from AlphaGo.models.policy import CNNPolicy
from interface.gtp_wrapper import run_gtp

MODEL = 'path/to/my_model_spec.json'
WEIGHTS = 'path/to/traindata/weights.00999.hdf5'

policy = CNNPolicy.load_model(MODEL)
policy.model.load_weights(WEIGHTS)

player = GreedyPolicyPlayer(policy)

run_gtp(player)
```

Running this script by itself, it will load the player then print "GTP engine ready" and hang, waiting for input. You can type GTP commands directly to it, for example try typing `list_commands`, and exit by typing `quit`. If you use a virtual environment, make sure you know how to run this script from outside the virtualenv, for example by using the virtualenv's python interpreter directly (i.e. `/path/to/your/virtualenv/bin/python greedy_player_gtp.py` should work when your virtual environment is not active).

In GoGui, you now need to create and attach this program using whatever command you use to run it, setting the "working directory" to your `/path/to/RocAlphaGo`.